Refresh the Intro to R Cheatsheets (#191)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: module-cheatsheets/intro-to-R-tidyverse-cheatsheet.md

| Base `R`          | [`str(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/utils/versions/3.6.2/topics/str)               | Object Structure      | Gets a summary of the object `x` structure.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Base `R`          | [`class(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/class)                            | Object Class      | Returns the type of the values in object `x`.                                                                |
| Base `R`          | [`nrow(x)`; `ncol(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/nrow)                            | Number of Rows; Number of Columns    | Get the number of rows and the number of columns in an object `x`, respectively.                                                          |

> | Base `R`          | [`length(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/length)                            | Number of Rows    | Returns how long the vector `x` is.                                                               |

Reviewer: For more than just vectors. Could be matrix, list, etc. Just say `object` and leave at that.

| Base `R`          | [`min(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/Extremes)                            | Minimum           | Returns the minimum value of all values in an object `x`.                                                           |

> | Base `R`          | [`sum(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/sum)                            | Sum               | Returns the sum of all values (values must be integer or numeric) in object `x` or logical vector `x`.                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`sum(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/sum)                            | Sum               | Returns the sum of all values (values must be integer, numeric, or logical) in object `x`.                                                           |
```

| Base `R`          | [`mean(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/mean)                            | Mean               | Returns the arithmetic mean of all values (values must be integer or numeric) in object `x` or logical vector `x`.                                                           |

> | Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2.                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2. Or the base can be specified as an argument.                                                            |
```

| Base `R`          | [`factor(x)` or `as.factor(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/factor)       | Factor             | Coerces object x into a factor (which is used to represent categorical data). This function can be used to coerce object `x` into other data types, i.e., `as.character`, `as.numeric`, `as.data.frame`, `as.matrix`, etc. |
| Base `R`          | [`levels(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/levels)                | Levels attributes    | Returns or sets the value of the levels in an object `x`.                                                                                                                                                               |
| Base `R`          | [`summary(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/summary)                | Object summary    | Returns a summary of the values in object `x`.                                                                                                                                                               |

> | Base `R`          | [`data.frame()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/data.frame)   | Data Frame            | Creates a data.frame where the named arguments will be the same length.                                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`data.frame()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/data.frame)   | Data Frame            | Creates a data frame where the named arguments will be the same length.                                                                                             |
```

| Base `R`          | [`round()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/Round)             | Round                 | Rounds the values of an object to the specified number of decimal places (default is 0).                                                                                                          |
| Base `R`          | [`names()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/names)                       | Names                     | Gets or sets the names of an object.                                      |                        
| Base `R`          | [`colnames()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/row%2Bcolnames)           | Column names              | Gets or sets the column names of a matrix or data frame.                  |                                                    
| Base `R`                | [`all.equal()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/all.equal)               | All equal                 | Checks if two R objects are nearly equal.                                 |

> | Base `R`                | [`all()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/all)               | All               | Checks if all of the values are `TRUE` for a set of logical vectors.                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`                | [`all()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/all)               | All               | Checks if all of the values are `TRUE` in a logical vector.                                 |
```

> | Base `R`               | [`t()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/t)                                        | Transpose       | Returns the transpose of a matrix or data frame.                                                             | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`               | [`t()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/t)                                        | Transpose       | Returns the transpose of a matrix or data frame. If given a data frame, returns a matrix.                                                          | 
```

| Library/Package                      | Piece of code                                   | What it's called       | What it does                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ggplot2`         | [`ggplot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/ggplot)                   | GG Plot               | Begins a plot that is finished by adding layers.        |
| `ggplot2`         | [`aes()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/aes)                   | Aesthetic Mappings              | Designates how variables in the data object are mapped to the visual properties of the ggplot.        |             

> | `ggplot2`         | [`geom_boxplot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/geom_boxplot)       | Boxplot               | Creates a boxplot when combined with ggplot().            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ggplot2`         | [`geom_boxplot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/geom_boxplot)       | Boxplot               | Creates a boxplot when added as a layer to a `ggplot()` object.            |
```

Reviewer: Can you use these kinds of words through the ggplot2 layer functions. Wanna be consistent in referring to them as being added on as more layers. `combined` I think is unclear.

| `ggplot2`         | [`geom_line()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/geom_path)       | Line plot               | Creates a line plot when combined with ggplot() by connecting the points in order of the x axis variable.            |
| `ggplot2`         | [`geom_hline()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/0.9.0/topics/geom_hline)       | Horizontal line              | Annotates a plot with horizontal lines when combined with ggplot() and one of the `geom` functions used to draw the plot, for example, `geom_point()`.           |
| `ggplot2`         | [`theme_classic()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/ggtheme)               | Classic Theme   | Displays `ggplot` without gridlines. The [`ggtheme` documentation](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/ggtheme) has descriptions on additional themes that can be used.                                                                         |

> | `ggplot2`         | [`ggtheme()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.3.0/topics/ggtheme)               | Classic Theme   | Displays `ggplot` without gridlines.                                                                         |

Reviewer: Is this actually a function by itself? I don't think we use this one, and `theme_classic` covers it well enough. I'd just get rid of this line to minimize confusion.

Read the `tidyr` package documentation [**here**](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/tidyr/versions/1.4.2) and the package vignette [**here**](https://tidyr.tidyverse.org/).

| Library/Package                      | Piece of code                                   | What it's called       | What it does                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `readr`           | [`read_tsv()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/readr/versions/1.3.0/topics/read_delim)           | Read TSV             | Reads in a TSV file from a specified file path. This function can be tailored to read in other common types of files. i.e. read_csv(), read_rds(), etc.                                          |

> | `tibble`          | [`column_to_rownames()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/tibble/versions/1.4.2/topics/rownames) | Column to Rownames    | Transforms an existing column into the rownames.                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tibble`          | [`column_to_rownames()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/tibble/versions/1.4.2/topics/rownames) | Column to Rownames    | Transforms an existing column called by a string into the rownames.                            |
```

| Base `R`          | [`length(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/length)                            | Number of Rows    | Returns how long the vector `x` is.                                                               |
| Base `R`          | [`min(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/Extremes)                            | Minimum           | Returns the minimum value of all values in an object `x`.                                                           |
| Base `R`          | [`sum(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/sum)                            | Sum               | Returns the sum of all values (values must be integer or numeric) in object `x` or logical vector `x`.                                                           |
| Base `R`          | [`mean(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/mean)                            | Mean               | Returns the arithmetic mean of all values (values must be integer or numeric) in object `x` or logical vector `x`.                                                           |

> | Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/SparkR/versions/2.1.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2.                                                           |

Reviewer 2: For some reason we were linking to `log()` in a different package
```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2.                                                           |
```

| Base `R`          | [`dir()`](https://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/list.files.html)             | Directory | Lists the names of the files and/or directories in the named directory.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Base `R`          | [`getwd()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/getwd)             | Get working directory | Finds the current working directory.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Base `R`          | [`setwd()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/getwd)             | Set working directory | Changes the current working directory.                                                                                                                                                            |

> | Base `R`          | [`dir.exists()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/logcondens.mode/versions/1.0.1/topics/dir.exists)         | Directory exists      | Checks the file path to see if the directory exists there.                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 2: Same thing here... linked to a different package
```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`dir.exists()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/files2)         | Directory exists      | Checks the file path to see if the directory exists there.                                                                                                                                         |
```

| Base `R`          | [`<-`](https://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/assignOps.html)                    | Assignment operator   | Assigns a name to something in the R environment                                                                                                                                                  |
| Base `R`          | [`c()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/c)                     | Concatenate           | Combines values into a vector or list                                                                                                                                                             |
| Base `R`          | [`%in%`](http://www.datasciencemadesimple.com/in-operator-in-r/)                                  | "in" logical operator           | Checks if the given value(s) on the left side of the operator are in the vector or other R object defined on the right side of the operator. It returns a logical `TRUE` or `FALSE` statement.                                                                                                                                                              |

> | Base `R`          | [`rm(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/remove)              | Remove                | Removes object(s) `x` from your environment                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`rm(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/remove)              | Remove                | Removes object(s) `x` from your environment.                                                                                                                                                       |
```

| Base `R`          | [`==, <=, >=, !=`](https://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/Comparison.html)       | Relational Operators  | These are binary operators which allow for the comparison of values in an object.                                                                                                                 |
| Base `R`          | [`str(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/utils/versions/3.5.1/topics/str)               | Object Structure      | Gets a summary of the object `x` structure.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Base `R`          | [`class(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/class)                            | Object Class      | Returns the type of the values in object `x`.                                                           |

> | Base `R`          | [`nrow(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/nrow)                            | Number of Rows    | Gets the number of rows in an object `x`. Similarly, `ncol(x)` gets the number of columns in an object `x`.                                                           |

Reviewer: Can add `ncol()` in this same section

| Base `R`          | [`length(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/length)                            | Number of Rows    | Returns how long the vector `x` is.                                                               |
| Base `R`          | [`min(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/Extremes)                            | Minimum           | Returns the minimum value of all values in an object `x`.                                                           |
| Base `R`          | [`sum(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.6.2/topics/sum)                            | Sum               | Returns the sum of all values (values must be integer or numeric) in object `x` or logical vector `x`.                                                           |

> | Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/SparkR/versions/2.1.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm.        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2.                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Base `R`          | [`log(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/SparkR/versions/2.1.2/topics/log)                            | Logarithm        | Gives the natural logarithm of object `x`. `log2(x)` can be used to give the logarithm of the object in base 2.                                                           |
```

| Base `R`          | [`head()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/utils/versions/3.5.1/topics/head)             | Head                  | Returns the top 6 rows of an object in the environment by default. You can specify how many rows you want by including the `n = `argument.                                                        |
| Base `R`          | [`tail()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/utils/versions/3.5.1/topics/head)             | Tail                  | Returns the bottom 6 rows of an object in the environment by default. You can specify how many rows you want by including the `n =` argument.                                                                  |
| Base `R`          | [`factor(x)` or `as.factor(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/factor)       | Factor             | Coerces object x into a factor (which is used to represent categorical data). This function can be used to coerce object `x` into other data types, i.e., `as.character`, `as.numeric`, `as.data.frame`, `as.matrix`, etc. |

> | Base `R`          | [`summary(x)`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/summary)                | Object summary    | Returns a summary of the values in object `x`.                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: May want to put a note here or with `summarise` that explicitly warns users to not get confused between the two. I've noticed people do confuse these

| Base `R`          | <a href = "https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/Extract">`[[x]]`</a>   |  Double bracket       | Extracts `x` from a nested list                                |
| Base `R`          | [`sessionInfo()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/utils/versions/3.5.1/topics/sessionInfo) | Session Information   | Returns the R version information, the OS, and the attacked packages in the current R session                                                                                                 |
| Base `R`          | [`getwd()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/getwd)             | Get working directory | Finds the current working directory.                                                                                                                                                              |

> | Base `R`          | [`setwd()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/getwd)             | Set working directory | Changes the current working directory.                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: We may not be using this explictly in the intro, but I think it should stay in the docs.

| Base `R`          | [`dir.exists()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/logcondens.mode/versions/1.0.1/topics/dir.exists)         | Directory exists      | Checks the file path to see if the directory exists there                                                                                                                                         |
| Base `R`          | [`dir.create()`](https://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/files2.html)             | Create directory      | Creates a directory at the specified file path.                                                                                                                                                   |
| Base `R`          | [`apply()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/apply)             | Apply                 | Returns a vector or list of values after applying a specified function to values in each row/column of an object                                                                                  |

> | Base `R`          | [`round()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/base/versions/3.5.1/topics/Round)             | Round                 | Rounds the values of an object to the specified number of decimal places (default is 0).                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 2: This is useful enough to leave in the docs as well.

| `dplyr`           | [`select()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/dplyr/versions/0.7.8/topics/select)            | Select                | Selects columns that match the specified argument                                                                                                                                                |
| `dplyr`           | [`mutate()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/dplyr/versions/0.7.8/topics/mutate)            | Mutate                | Adds a new column that is a function of existing columns                                                                                                                                          |
| `dplyr`           | [`summarise()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/dplyr/versions/0.7.8/topics/summarise)      | Summarise             | Summarises multiple values in an object into a single value. This function can be used with other functions to retrieve a single output value for the grouped values. `summarize` and `summarise` are synonyms in this package.                                                                                                    |

> | `dplyr`           | [`rename()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/dplyr/versions/0.7.8/topics/select)            | Rename                | Renames designated columns while keeping all variables of the data.frame                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: Worth leaving in.

| `dplyr`           | [`inner_join()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/dplyr/versions/0.7.8/topics/join)          | Inner Join            | Joins data from two data frames, retaining only the rows that are in both datasets.    |

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

> ### Docker 

Reviewer: We should remove this docker section for now.

| Library/Package                      | Piece of code                                   | What it's called       | What it does                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ggplot2`         | [`ggplot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/ggplot)                   | GG Plot               | Begins a plot that is finished by adding layers.        |

> | `ggplot2`               | [`xlab()`; `ylab()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/labs)           | X Axis Labels; Y Axis Labels                    | Modifies the labels on the x axis and on the y axis, respectively        |             

Reviewer: Since this same link has `ggtitle` in it, you could just put this all on one line.

> | `ggplot2`         | [`geom_boxplot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/geom_boxplot)       | Boxplot               | Creates a boxplot when combined with ggplot()            |

Reviewer 2: Could you add `geom_point()` and `geom_line()` as those are pretty general use? 

Also, why don't we move all the geoms up to directly below `ggplot()`

| `ggplot2`            | [`facet_wrap()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/facet_wrap)                     | Facet Wrap      | Plots individual graphs using specified variables to subset the data                                                                   |
| `ggplot2`         | [`ggtitle()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/labs)                              | GG Title        | Sets the title of a `ggplot`                         |
| `ggplot2`               | [`ggsave()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/ggsave)                 | GG Save                                         | Saves the last plot in working directory                                 |                                                                                         
| `ggplot2`               | [`last_plot()`](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/ggplot2/versions/3.1.0/topics/last_plot)           | Last plot                                       | Returns the last plot produced                                           |  

> ### `readr`, `tibble` and `tidyr`

Reviewer: You could just call these "Other tidyverse" or something?

Reviewer: May just want to include the `ggplot`functions in there and call them all underneath `tidyverse` then have a subsection that's `ggplot`

Author: Part of the reason this was done was to link to each individual package documentation and vignette.

Using the suggestion above, I am thinking that we can use `tidyverse` as the big header, and keep the smaller headers (`dplyr`, `ggplot2`, and `readr, tibble and tidyr`) as subsections. What do you think about that idea?

Author: Or maybe we can rename the header `readr, tibble and tidyr` to be `Other tidyverse` and link the individual documentations under that heading.
